# Pesticide exposure induces risks of gestational anemia by maternal gut microbiota: A prospective cohort study
The global burden of gestational anemia (GA) remains high, with environmental stressors, such as pesticides, playing driving roles. Gut microbiota may mechanistically link these stressors to maternal health, yet its role in GA under pesticide exposure is poorly understood. This study aimed to explore the associations between pesticide exposure and GA, and assess the contribution of gut microbiota. Pregnant women were prospectively recruited from 2017 to 2018, with blood and stool samples collected in the second trimester. Red blood cell (RBC) count and hemoglobin (Hb) were assessed in the second and third trimesters for GA diagnosis. Multistage analyses were adopted to explore linear, dose-response, and longitudinal relationships between serum pesticides and GA. Gut microbiota associated with pesticides and GA were identified through group comparison and regression analysis. Finally, the contribution of gut microbiota was determined using mediation analysis. GA was diagnosed in 22.7% and 29.8% of participants during the second and third trimesters, respectively. Furalaxyl and atrazine showed positive associations with GA. Inverse associations were observed between pyrimethanil, clomazone and Hb, and between metribuzin, atrazine, clomazone and RBC count. These associations were robustly confirmed through dose-response and longitudinal analyses. Additionally, 24 significant pesticide-taxa associations were identified, with nearly half involving Roseburia. Negative associations were found of Shannon index with RBC count, and of the Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes (F/B) ratio with RBC count and Hb. Furthermore, 21 taxa were significantly associated with GA and hematological parameters. Lastly, Shannon index and Roseburia statistically mediated the relationships of pesticides with RBC count and GA, respectively. Pesticide exposure was positively associated with GA, with gut microbiota playing a mediating role. These findings not only highlight the anemia-inducing effects of pesticides, but also inform microbiota-based interventions for managing GA and maternal health.
